		Resume
		Lukas Woodtli
Personal Data	
Name
Lukas Woodtli
Address
Nordstrasse 137

8037 ZŸrich
Phone Number
079 / 446 31 26
E-Mail
woodtluk@gmail.com


Nationality
Swiss, Czech 


Family	
Parents
Werner Woodtli, Doctor

Jarmila Woodtli, Chemist


Education	
2004-2009
Study of Electrical Engineering, University of Applied Science ZŸrich (ZHAW)
2003-2004
Teacher Training College, PH ZŸrich
1997-2001
Apprenticeship as Mechanic, MSW Winterthur


Bachelor Thesis	
The task of our bachelor thesis was to construct a flying device that entertains visitors at Disneyland. We created a quadro copter in the shape of a film reel.
The project was part of the 'Focusprojects' at ETH ZŸrich. The team consisted of seven students working on the project over the course of two semesters. A fellow student and I were responsible for creating the controlling algorithm for the embedded hardware. Our task was to read the data from the sensors and calculate the rotation speed for every one of the four propellers.
The embedded hardware comprises of various technological systems. There are two microprocessors. One of them is responsible for the sensors, the other one is used for the controlling algorithm and to drive the propellers. There are also many different sensors on the hardware board. We used gyroscopes, a compass, a pressure sensor, ultrasonic sensors and acceleration sensors. To read all the sensor data we had to work with different interfaces such as UART, Bluetooth, ZigBee, SPI, I2C and ADC. There is also a GPS module connected to the hardware so we can always determine the position of the quadro copter.
The bachelor thesis was rewarded with a grade of 5.5. More information on the project can be found on the homepage: www.reely.ethz.ch

Internship at Schiller AG	
The main task during the internship was to create a computer program that reads and writes XML files. In these files the configuration of different filters for electrocardiogram devices are stored. The software reads the configuration from the file and shows it graphically as connected boxes which represent the filters. It's also possible to create an XML file. For that the filters can be placed on a workspace via drag and drop. They then can be connected with mouse clicks. The software was programmed in C++ mainly with Qt, STL, Boost and the Xerces XML library.

Work Experience	
Since June 2002
Software engineering, Codecheck ZŸrich
January 2010 - June 2010
Six month internship as software engineer, Schiller AG Baar
March 2002 - August 2002
Six months as a mechanic, AIM Horgen

Stays Abroad	
1984
Ten months in Ann Arbor, Michigan (USA)
2002-2003
Six months in New Zealand

Language Skills	
German (Mother tongue)
Very good writing and speaking knowledge 
Czech (Mother tongue)
Very good speaking and basic writing knowledge
English
Good writing and speaking knowledge
French
Some basic knowledge

References	
Available on request

Hobbies	
* Reading books
* Sport: 
o Mountain Climbing, Running, Windsurfing, Kung Fu and Eskrima
* Cooking





	1





